I always hate seeing myself on the screen.
It's gross.
You know, it's like when you hear your own voice sometimes, I don't sound like that, do I?
That is awful.
How does that happen?
That's where it's like, whenever you go, don't do that.
Come back.
Yeah, that's where it's like when you see yourself on the screen.
Also, on there, I had slightly, very slightly longer, tufti hair.
Every now and again, I buzz it off.
And my mum, who watches at home, my mum, she
said to me the other day, sent me a message saying, hey, Pete, what's happened to your lovely blonde hair?
He's like, where have you been, mama?
She said, no, but you've taken so much off.
You haven't got any at all.
I was like, no, it's just the lights.
Maybe.
OK.
Right.
We are looking at the theme at the moment of stepping into the story and how we can step into the story that God is writing in Skylot Church and wherever God has placed us.
out into the world.
It's so important that it's not just for here, but it's everywhere, stepping into the story.
And this week, one week ahead of Giving Sunday, as you just heard, we're going to take a look at giving.
And giving is something that we, I'm talking actually cash here, I'm talking about money.
And it's something we don't talk about loads in this church.
if you are tuning in for the first time at home, or this is your first time into church.
You've come and they're talking about church.
Don't worry about money.
We're not raising money for the roof campaign, which would be what most churches seem to be doing.
But we do need, occasionally, to talk about money because we just said, Jesus, take your place at the center, at the center of our lives.
And sometimes other things can creep their way into what is the most important thing in our lives.
And so we're gonna talk about,
giving financially this morning ahead of giving Sunday next week.
I know that there are loads of ways that we can give.
Please, I'm not belittling any other way of giving, but sometimes we can say we can give our money or we could give our time or we can give our energy or our prayer and we kind of pick the ones that we like the most and
Therefore, we can say, well, I don't give money, but what I do do is this.
But actually, it's not really an either or I want to speak about today.
It's an and both.
Here's a trigger warning for you because some of you are already triggered and already feeling, don't like this at all.
I don't like it.
There's something about money that can make a squirm more than most other things.
There's something about our bank balance and me talking about it that gives you the ick.
There's something about a 52-year-old man on the platform saying, ick, that gives some of you the ick.
If I put out a little health check question and said, even in your close-up friendship groups, how comfy are you about telling your best friends how much you earn?
Most people don't.
For some reason, I think it's the best kept secret in the country, even from our closest, nearest and dearest.
We don't talk about what we earn.
There's something about it that's really quite private and boxed in.
And I'm not suggesting that you will start standing up and shouting out how much you earn.
That's not what I'm saying.
But I do believe that there can be a cultural thing about money that keeps it so private, keeps it so it's mine, and it's for me and mine, that it can make us uncomfortable when it's spoken about.
So I want to challenge you, as I've been challenged myself in the past, that if you feel that a drawbridge is starting to come up as I speak, and the portcullis is coming down, and you're hoping this will be over soon.
Let's just pray about that for a moment.
And allow God to speak to us.
I don't want to influence anybody in their money.
I don't want to do that.
But what I do want to do today is to speak a little bit and to teach a little bit about what the Bible says, about tithing and about offerings, and what we do with our money.
If you are feeling like, I don't like it at all, then you're in good company because there's this cool story.
Oh, by the way, look, there's a piggy bank sort of thing, but we were thinking of putting this slide up because it can be a sacred cow, but we're not going there.
So we're going to do, we're going to do this instead.
We're going to look at this little verse.
If you feel a bit downhearted by this look, as Jesus was starting out on his way to Jerusalem, a man came running up to him, knelt down and asked, good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?
Why'd you call me good, Jesus asked?
Only God is truly good, but to answer your question, you know the commandments, you must not murder, you mustn't commit adultery, you must not steal, you must not testify falsely, you mustn't cheat anyone, honor your father and mother.
Teacher, the young man replied, I've obeyed all these commandments since I was young.
Looking at the man, Jesus felt genuine love for him.
There is still one thing you haven't done, he told him, go and sell all your possessions.
and give the money to the poor.
And you will have treasure in heaven.
Then come and follow me.
And just like many of us, this, the man's face fell.
And he went away sad, for he had many possessions.
This passage, this story, isn't saying is you can't have wealth.
But the problem is that so often our wealth has us.
It's okay to have money as long as money doesn't have you.
It's okay to have money in your back pocket as long as you are not in the back pocket of the money that you have.
Having money is never the issue.
I've got a salary, I've got a pension, I've got life insurance.
The issue is the importance that I place on that money and what I'm prepared to allow God to do with it.
And every week in this church, you hear the phrase as you heard this morning, we're now going to take up our tithes and offerings.
We do it as an extension of our worship.
It was said this morning,
You then may see a QR code behind us on the screen, and then you're encouraged to say hello to somebody near to you.
And this kind of downplaying of giving has actually done you guys a disservice, I think.
Because we don't like to talk much about money.
It makes us feel awkward too, as the leaders.
And so sometimes we sort of downplay it.
Like, it's time for the offerings.
Hey, why don't you say hello to somebody near to you?
Recently, more than one of the staff and the leadership team have been asked what tithes and offerings are.
I actually haven't spoken on what tithes and offerings are since 2016.
Ten years since I've devoted a message to it.
So if this is your first time, it has been ten years.
It's not every week.
And you could really well be forgiven that into thinking that tithing is about being welcoming to others.
It's time for our tithes and offerings.
Why don't you say hello to somebody sitting near you and make them feel welcome?
The two things seem to go hand in hand.
Another member of staff recently was asked, who funds all this stuff?
Who funds everything that goes on in this building?
Who funds the staff?
Who funds everything that you do here and out into the world?
Remember Vision Sunday on the 11th of Jan.
Remember everything, if you haven't heard it, go back and have a listen.
There's so much that's happening in the life of the church.
Everything we do with our preschoolers, our kids, our youth, everything we do with discipleship, when we gather our pastoral care, looking after this building, baptizing, dedicating, eating together, cooking over a thousand meals for the community last year, making hundreds of hampers, reaching 255
250 girls in five high schools with a self-esteem course, supporting students in Chompsford College, working with and supporting over 50 domestic abuse survivors, working into the...
prison on many occasions, more than once every week of the year, providing health care for the homeless, having a bursary fund for primary schools in this area so that people who can't afford uniform and school trips can apply to us, and we will buy their school uniforms.
We've also bought washing machines and all sorts of things for families in need in the community.
Who is it who just managed to buy a cow in Romania called Sky with big love?
How does it all happen?
How is this stuff funded?
And the answer is, is funded by us.
We fund it.
We haven't had any external funding beyond like a £5,000 pot for a few years now.
We fund all of the stuff that is going on through our tithes and our offerings.
So this morning, we're going to have a look at what both of those words are.
What are tithes?
What are offerings?
So, tithing.
A tithe means a tenth.
First of all, that's the definition or that's the sort of where the word comes from.
It first appears in Genesis chapter 14.
What happens here is that Abraham, who later will be called Abraham, had separated from his nephew Lot.
They were in good relationship with each other, but the Bible says they've got so many herds, so many flocks, that the land cannot sustain
both of those groups of the family together and all of their livestock.
And so what happens is that Abraham and Lot, they separate and go different ways, but still in good relationship.
Then a war breaks out in the area that Lot has gone to.
And as part of the spoils of the war, Lot and his family and all of their belongings have been captured.
Abraham, sorry, hears about this.
And he executes a mission to go and rescue Lot, his family and their possessions and bring them all back.
And he's successful.
And when he comes back, the king of Salem, which would become Jerusalem, appears.
And this is what it says.
Then Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought out bread and wine.
He was priest of God most high.
And he blessed Abraham, saying, blessed be Abraham by God most high, creator of heaven and earth.
And praise be to God most high, who delivered your enemies into your hands.
Then Abraham gave him a tenth of everything.
As you study the Bible and you read around this, Melchizedek is a really interesting character.
And many see him as a forerunner of Jesus.
if not Jesus himself, but a forerunner in the likeness of Jesus.
And here he is.
He is the king of Salem, the king of Jerusalem.
And I love the fact he comes out with bread and wine.
I'm sure there must be some symbolism there that's really important.
He was priest of God most high.
This was a forerunner of Jesus himself.
And how did Abraham respond?
He gave him a tenth of everything.
So the tithe began as an act of worship.
It began as gratitude to God through the high priest.
Not because he had to, not because he was told to.
Not because he was told that if you join this church, you have to sign on this dotted line and give 10% of your income.
Now this first ever tithe was a freely given act of worship.
And 14 chapters later, Abraham's grandson, Jacob, does something similar.
He encounters God in a dream.
If you've read it, there's this ladder that's going on.
And Jacob has promised many things.
And he says this, if God will be with me and will watch over me on this journey I am taking and will give me food to eat and clothes to wear so that I return safely to my father's household, then the Lord will be my God.
And this stone that I have set up as a pillar will be God's house.
And of all that you give me, I will give you a tenth.
Once again, not because of law, but because of an act of worship and an act of gratitude to God.
Now, later on in the book of Leviticus, this does become a written law for the people of God that a tithe of everything belongs to the Lord and should be brought to the Lord.
And this would be used to support the work of the tabernacle.
where God dwelt by specifically giving to the priests and the Levites as they went about their duties.
If you fast forward, there's so much that could be said, but time won't be with us if we do.
If we fast forward to the end of the Old Testament, the last book, you'll find this.
Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, so there will be enough food in my temple.
If you do, says the Lord of Heaven's armies, I will open the windows of heaven for you.
I will pour out a blessing so great you won't have enough room to take it in.
Put me to the test."
Interesting.
When Nick and I joined this church, we used to distribute our tithe across loads of organizations.
So we understood about giving a tenth, but we give 2% there and 1% there.
And we used to do it all across.
We'd divide it up.
And then we were challenged by Steve Crouch, who was the worship pastor here at the time.
He spoke to us about bringing it to the storehouse based on what I've shared with you this morning, the place where you get fed spiritually.
We looked into it, we weren't beating over the head.
We looked into it, we prayed into it, and we decided, yep, that's what we'd like to do.
Not because we were forced or cajoled, and you must be getting that from me, hopefully, I'm not trying to force or cajole anybody.
But because we were convinced personally, and so we have been tithing into this storehouse for the past 25 years,
bringing a minimum of 10% of everything we have to this church.
I find it really interesting that the verse above, the verse behind me says, put me to the test.
Because that's not something we're encouraged to do generally.
And actually, most of us will know that when Jesus is in the desert in Matthew 4, he quotes Deuteronomy 6 to the enemy and says, you should not put the Lord your God to the test.
We know that.
But here, there is a specific
instance where it is permitted, even encouraged by God.
Read through it again.
We're encouraged to do it.
This isn't prosperity teaching.
It doesn't mean you give God 10 pounds, he'll give you 20.
It's not like the best investment plan you can ever come up with for your money to make good money.
Because when God says he blesses you, he blesses you how he sees fit to bless you.
You may hope he blesses you with money, but he may bless you in other ways.
He chooses how he does that.
We mustn't give to Him so that we receive in all the areas we've got listed.
We give to Him knowing that He is generous and wants to bless us.
I've spoken to so many people who have been, who have got stories about God, how God has done miracles with their 90% when they faithfully tithe their 10%.
And for the sake of balance, I know many people who don't tithe and they're still blessed by God because our God is awesome and loving and generous and blooming brilliant.
But here it says, I will open the windows of heaven for you.
I will pour out a blessing so great you won't have enough room to take it in.
Try it.
Put me to the test.
Seems pretty clear.
One of the things that can be really tricky for us when it comes to money is the phrase, it's mine.
It's mine.
I earned it.
I can do what I want with it.
I remember when I got paid from, you know, my early paper rounds.
I finally had some money, not much.
I was absolutely ripped off.
We were talking about this the other day.
£3.60.
£3.60 a week.
Six days.
60 per day, honestly.
Took me an hour.
Some people, they're lucky enough I do the road next to the
news agent, you know, every house has a paper and they've done one road and they go home.
Mine, I had every distant house.
I went and my dad to be fair.
We went on our bikes, thanks dad.
We went on our bikes and we would deliver these stuff.
Absolutely ripped off.
But I knew that when I got that money, it was mine and I remember when I then got my Saturday job and it was mine and I could finally buy a curry.
Praise the Lord.
Because my dad didn't like all that foreign muck, you know, that's what he used to say.
So I'd go out and I'd go for it.
I'm getting a calmer.
I'm going to spend half my money.
It was a curry to me, trust me.
I only ate sausages, chips, and beans, so a cormor was pretty amazing.
But anyway, that was my point.
My point is this.
I'd been paid, and finally it was mine.
And I finally could do what I wanted with it, and no one can tell me what to do with it.
And we can still be like that as grown-ups.
This is mine.
The problem with this is mine is, you know, it could become a bit like
golem.
As the journey progresses, it's mine, my own.
Somebody's got the voice.
Somebody can do it.
It's like, that's how we can be.
Please talk to me about the serving in the life of the church.
I'd rather go up and listen to your hundredth response of the year on kids' church than have you talk about my money.
I wish I could do it.
It'd be so good.
I should have practiced, but I didn't.
Sorry.
This was helpful for us.
Bring all the tithes.
Bring.
That verb is a really useful verb for me because it doesn't say pay.
It doesn't say pay.
Heaven forbid that it said pay because this is not a tax.
We are not paying a tax to God.
It's not a debt.
It's not a stranglehold over our lives.
We don't pay it.
It doesn't even say, give.
I find that interesting.
Because giving comes with offerings that we're going to look at in just a sec.
This is God's being.
It says, bring.
And this has helped frame our thinking on tithing.
This is God's being.
Imagine I give my daughters 10 pounds each.
And I say, girls, I'm going to give you a tenor each.
What I want you to do is to bring one pound of that and put it into the family pot.
Then you are free to do with whatever you like with the other nine pounds.
Okay?
And you can choose to be generous with that and give some of that away if you want to, but make sure you bring the one pound into the family pot, into the middle.
That's the way we view tithing.
That whatever God gives us, the first 10% we bring to Him.
And we can joyfully and excitedly bring it to him so that his kingdom can be built.
And we can continue as a church to do all of those things I spoke about earlier on.
This 10% thing is often tied in with a phrase called first fruits.
Haven't got time to go back into all of that, but it goes back as far as Genesis 4 actually with the cane and able and the gifts that they gave.
I can go into, I'm fascinated by it and I'll talk to you about it if you like.
On a practical level, what does it mean for us to give first fruits?
Well, basically that means giving it the beginning of the month rather than the end.
Notoriously, if we plan to give God 10% at the end of the month, there's not much left to play with.
I mean, how many of us are desperately waiting for payday to come around, especially on the month like January, when it goes on forever?
And we've had Christmas like, when is payday?
It must be coming soon.
first fruits is giving to God from the beginning of what we get, not the end.
And again, just for transparency's sake, not because Nick and I are heroes, there are loads of people doing this, but just so you know, the way we give our first fruits and our tithe is quite straightforward.
We look at our annual income and we do it gross.
Some people do it after, they do it net of paying their pension and paying their tax and all that.
That's absolutely fine, people can do that.
The reason why we go for gross is because we want God to get the first bit, not the second bit, after the tax and the pensions.
So we get the amount we earn across the year and then all we do is take what is 10% of that and divide it by 12 so that we have a monthly amount that we give.
It says simple as that.
I say it's simple and it's easy, it's easy-ish, perhaps it's not easy at all, particularly if we're new to it.
because it can look terrifying and impossible to do that.
Pete, I hear what you're saying, but I couldn't possibly do that.
I get that because we all live to the means we have, don't we?
If you get a pay rise of 1,000 pounds this year, you don't get to the end of the year and find, oh, I've got 1,000 pounds in my bank.
Of course not.
We live to the means.
We expand our spending and what we invest into and what we do with our money and our holidays we have and all that stuff based on what we have.
So starting this process can be really tough.
It's actually easier if we don't have much.
If you've got 20 quid, bringing two pounds of it is much easier than having 50,000 and thinking, hold on, that means I need to divide 5,000 pounds by 12.
Hold on, what's that?
It's about 400 and help me say 110 ish.
I don't know, something like that a month.
That might be harder for us to step into.
And we can step into it gradually if that's what we feel God is saying.
But it's worth it.
It's easy to step in.
When you have a little, it's harder if you have a lot.
That's why at this, the man's face fell and he went away sad for he had many possessions.
If he only had a bunny rabbit, he could have sold it and given the money to the poor and carried on following Jesus, but he had a lot and so it was harder.
Now, some people might say that this stuff, this tithing thing, well, this is outdated.
It's Old Testament law.
But remember, it did start before the law was written and it came out of hearts filled with gratitude and praise.
And Jesus himself, when he had an opportunity to say, you don't need to tithe anymore because he was telling the Pharisees off in Matthew 23, he said this, he said, look guys, you're tithing on these different things.
But you've forgotten the more important things of justice and mercy and faithfulness.
And then he doesn't say, don't bother with tithing anymore.
You need to just do those three.
He said, you should have practiced the latter justice, mercy and faithfulness without neglecting the former tithing.
So he had a chance to say, can't tithing is no more.
But actually, he was saying you should be tithing, but don't forget the other things of the kingdom too.
It's not, don't just be religious with your money.
Make sure that you give me your whole heart.
Okay.
Well, there's tithing.
Hopefully that's helpful.
Gives you a chance to have a think, have a look, have a read, go away, have a pray and a think.
Something about this church is that we don't know who tithes and who doesn't as leaders.
We never look in the bank vows and say, all of this person gives that.
That person gives that.
Not at all.
We're not going to know what you give.
We're not interested in that.
God is our ultimate provider when we trust Him.
But we do promise to steward your gifts wisely.
That is a charge that is given to us by God and we take it seriously.
But don't do it because you have to, do it because you want to.
I remember when I was growing up in a Bellevue Baptist, Alan Cox, when there was communion, he used to invite us to the table with this prayer, that always says, come not because you must, but because you may.
That's how it began.
And that's how it is with tithing.
Don't do it because you feel you have to.
Do it because you may and you want to.
Offerings.
What are offerings?
Well, offerings are everything else we give that are above and beyond our tithe.
And it comes from hearts being stirred and generosity being unleashed.
I'm just going to pause for a brief second to, if such a thing exists, to talk about
my dad.
Yesterday I was at the men's breakfast and I had a really hard time.
In fact it was so hard I left the breakfast and I came out here and sat on the bar over there and ate my food on my own because I didn't want to be with anybody and then I had to leave early and the reason for all of that is that yesterday marked one year of my dad passing away and we'd sailed through his birthday earlier this month and I thought I was going to be okay
And then I realized, actually, I don't have loads of memories of my dad's birthday, but I have so many memories of yesterday a year ago.
And every hour, I could remember different things happening.
So I just want to pause and say that my dad was blooming awesome.
And his legacy lives on.
And I also want to say that he was one of the most generous men I ever met.
His whole life, his tithes.
Of course he brought his tithes.
He brought his offerings.
He would give wherever he could.
He would sow his life out for other people.
And I just want to honor him in this moment.
But when it comes to offerings, thank you.
When it comes to offerings, there's a beautiful moment in Exodus 35 that Nicky and I have been reading at the start of this year.
And Moses has just come down the mountain from spending time with God.
His face is radiant and he is carrying the two stone tablets on which
The Ten Commandments are written, and he gathers everyone together.
Moses said to the whole Israelite community, this is what the Lord has commanded, from what you have, take an offering for the Lord.
Everyone who is willing to bring to the Lord an offering of gold, silver, bronze, blue, purple, scarlet, yarn, fine linen, the list goes on.
But I love in there everyone who is willing.
Not all of you have to do this, but if your heart is moved and you're willing, then bring it.
Give this amazing offering.
Then the whole Israelite community withdrew from Moses' presence and everyone who was willing and whose heart moved them came and brought an offering to the Lord for the work on the tent of meeting for all its service and for the sacred garments, all who were willing
Men and women alike came and brought gold, jewelry of all kinds, brooches, earrings, rings and ornaments.
All who were willing.
All the Israelite men and women who were willing brought to the Lord free will offerings.
For all the work the Lord through Moses had commanded them to do.
This was gonna pay for the work that God had commanded them to do, and we have a free will offering next week, an opportunity to give an offering to ensure that we can keep doing the things that God is calling us to do.
We don't find ourselves, because of the cost of living crisis and all of things, we don't find ourselves in a financially flush situation.
We actually lost about 25,000 last year, and we could only do that for three years before we had nothing.
We are in a situation.
where we are looking to God and trusting God.
But although we do all this stuff, please don't think that we are a rich organization.
We actually want to lift our heads.
Hear what God is asking us to do and crack on with it.
Trusting that the money will follow.
What we never want to be is a church that looks at the spreadsheet and says we can only do A, B and C. That's boring.
We've got a thing on our wall upstairs.
that says, always leave room for God to do a miracle.
And that's what we're going to do as a church.
We're going to hear what He asks us to do.
We're going to crack on.
But everybody who was willing had an opportunity here to bring their free will offering.
Skilled workers who were doing all the work on the sanctuary left what they were doing.
This is great this bit.
And said to Moses, the people are bringing more than enough for doing the work.
The Lord commanded to be done.
I'd love that.
Marcus has to jump up here one Sunday morning.
Tell them to stop.
We've got more than enough.
We don't know what to do with it.
I mean, that's actually what happens here.
Then Moses gave an order and they sent this word throughout the camp.
No man or woman is to make anything else as an offering for the sanctuary.
And so the people were estranged from bringing more because what they already had was more than enough to do the work.
That would be a cool place to get to.
We'd all be loving that.
That would be amazing.
Having enough to do everything God is calling us to do without worrying about what the spreadsheet says.
So, tithes, offerings.
I hope that's helpful.
And next week, as I said, we get our annual giving service where we can give into the ombre going vision of the church.
So over this week, why don't you have a think and a pray about what you could give?
In 2 Corinthians 9, it says this.
Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.
And God is able to bless you abundantly so that in all things, at all times, having all that you need, you will abound in every good work.
I wish I put that on the slide, so I'm going to read it again.
It's the one before.
Thank you.
I don't know what I did.
You can read it again now.
Because most of you were probably read it while I was talking.
I didn't listen.
So I always do when there's a slide behind.
So each of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion for God loves a cheerful giver.
And God is able to bless you abundantly so that in all things at all times, having all you need, you will abound in every good work.
Now, again, I've spoken about how we do tithing.
It's important that you know we also give into the offering every year.
And we've made it a bit of a game when it comes to offerings.
And I think some of you know the way we do it.
The rule is that we both have a moment to pray.
We both think about how much we should put in the offering.
And then we go three, two, one, and we both say a figure.
And the rule is the biggest one is what happens.
And in the early stages of this fun game,
I didn't find it fun at all.
I thought my wife was ridiculous.
She was so generous.
It was so annoying.
There was one time there's a fun to collect for some white goods for a family.
They need a washing machine and a dishwasher or something like that.
So ready?
Three, two, one.
I'm like 50 pounds.
Nicki's like, we need to buy it all.
What do you mean?
We're just going to take them to Currys and buy the lot.
No.
Well, how can that be fair?
50 quid was good.
You were supposed to say 60.
We could have agreed on that.
So there's been loads of times over the years when we've played this game, and I was notoriously low, wasn't I?
I'd be like, OK, 100.
She's like 300.
Done it.
I lost it again.
But it's cool.
And it was fun for us.
I'm not suggesting you do that, because you should give what you've decided in your heart to give.
Not the way that we do it, but how are you going to do it?
Because you can make it enjoyable, and the loads are fun.
Over the last few years, actually,
We have, for the offering that's taking place next week, we haven't had enough money to actually give the number that we've chosen.
Interesting.
Word of warning, please, or word of advice.
Please don't give out of debt.
Next week, don't give out of debt.
If you use your credit card because it gives you some points and then you pay it off for every month, you can do that.
But if that gets you into debt giving you to hear, we don't need you to do that.
Please don't do that.
Give out of what you have, not out of what you don't have.
But what we've had to do for the last few years, because we haven't had the money, is we've had to add it to our standing order of our tithe.
Because you're like, oh, that figure, OK, let's divide it by 12, stick it into us, add it to our standing order.
And that's just been a way that we've managed to do it.
There's loads of ways you can do it.
Have a pray, see what God might say.
Over the years, we have done so much as a church through our incredible staff team who are actually our greatest resource and who aren't paid brilliantly,
with our kids and youth, with our counseling and pastoral care, the things we do in and through this building that we love, we're so grateful for, the things we do out into the community, we've given money to so many great causes.
Here's just an example.
Some of us weren't here at the time and most of us would have forgotten.
I'd forgotten until I read it and I was here.
During the pandemic, we gave away prepaid shopping cards.
to people from this church family and locally in the community to help, particularly with those who'd lost their jobs during the pandemic.
So Tesco must have loved us because we bought prepaid shopping cards and gave them away to the tune of 35,000 pounds.
I just find that phenomenal that we gave away 35,000 pounds worth of Tesco cards.
And that's sort of giving it takes faith, but that's what we're about.
That's the sort of generous community we are called to be.
And that's why I'm unashamed this year to speak about this and to take up an annual offering for the church because we've been able to give away and to do so much.
And you can be assured again that when you give, it will achieve great things because God's hand will be on it.
We will never hold back from giving away from the out of the overflow of what God has given to us.
anything that you give to God cannot be stolen from you in any other way.
We will invest into bricks and mortar of this building that impacts so many as a church family, but we don't want to scale back the impact that we're having.
We actually have vision to see this stuff increase, to see more people reach, more people bless, more hearts and lives transformed.
And that's why we give into this church in particular.
And that is why without cajoling, I would encourage you
to do it too, not because you have to, not because you must, but because you may.
Not because you have to sign on a dotted line to say you will.
Bring your tithes.
Give into next week's special offering because this is your home.
This is where you've fed, because you believe in the cause, because you want us all to keep doing what we do and to build on it with fresh vision, with excitement for what the future holds.
Let me pray.
Lord, we just want to pause and thank You for everything that You have given to us.
Lord, all that we have is from You.
And right back in the garden, You asked us to be stewards of what You'd given to us.
Help us to treat our money with good stewardship, not with ownership of its mind.
but stewardship.
Lord, anything that I've said this morning that isn't of you may it fall away now and be forgotten.
Everything that is from you, even if it challenges, may it stick.
Lord, we pray that you will come and take your place at the center of our lives, that nothing would be more valuable to us than you
Lord, I pray for this church.
I pray for its financial situation.
Thank you that you are Jehovah Jireh, our provider, the one who meets our needs, the one that name means the one who sees and the one who sees to it.
Thank you that you will see to it that everything you are calling us to will be provided for.
Our eyes are on you, the author and the perfecter of our faith.
Thank you God for what you're going to do in this coming year.
Thank you the next January.
We'll be building an amazing altar celebrating what this church did in here and out into the world.
Thank you Lord.
This is your church.
You're building it.
You love it and we love you.
Amen.